
CURRICULAM VITAE
Damoder.B.Patil
Mobile:  
Muscat-Oman+968-98670286
India,Mumbai+91 9967389962
E-Mail: damoder.patil@gmail.com
Date of Birth: July 16 ,1977
         
Job Objective 
Seeking senior level assignments in EPC, Inspection & Quality Assurance with reputed firms. 
Profile Summary 
• A competent professional with 17 years  of experience in: 
Quality Control & Compliance  Inspection & Testing  Documentation 
Internal Audit Team Management QMS Implementation
Investigation  Project Quality Management
• Adept at carrying out various tests and inspection for various processes and checking the quality standards.
• Demonstrated acumen in ensuring that processes are conducted in accordance with guidelines and regulations.
• Adapting and implementing stage-by-stage Quality Monitoring System to ensure adherence to technical 
specifications and quality manual & standards
• Well versed with codes & standards like ASME, ASTM, API, BS, NACE, ISO, ANSI, DIN, etc.
• Excellent relationship management, communication skills with the ability to network with engineering, client and 
sub-contractors representative to resolve any quality problems / issues.
Core Competencies 
• Carrying out the inspection of valves Pipes & fittings, visual weld check, etc. 
• Conducting material inspection in compliance with purchase order, review & verification of material test 
certificates for various materials
• Prioritizing quality assurance responsibilities based on the integration of new designs and products into current 
production schedule
• Supervising, managing and supporting the quality assurance personnel
• Providing administrative and technical direction to all quality control personnel encompassing personnel 
administration, resolution of technical problems, development / approval of in-house training, etc.
• Attend kick of meeting and pre order inspection meetings.
• Supplier QA/QC documents review and approval to client specifications ITP, NDE procedures, Pressure test, PMI 
and painting procedures.
• Inspection activity held at supplier end during initial stage, Raw material inspection and chemical and mechanical 
HT, hardness, IGC, Impact test witness, applicable NDT test witness, in process and final pressure test witness, 
blasting, painting and packing witness.  
• Ensure the completeness of ITP activities as per project specifications.
Employment Details 
 Oct-12 Onwards     – Till date:   Velosi LLC  . (Applaus Velosi),   Muscat. Oman as Assigned by PDO Oman as Vendor  
Surveillance Inspector and Technical reviewer of Worldwide inspection reports
Inspection carried out for Client as below: 
Clients: Petroleum Development of Oman, 
Major Inspection did for PDO Oman:
Project Names : 
ODC Harmal, SRDCII, Zauliya Gas ,SNCP, Greater Bibra,Y3DC,Amin steam, Gas well, Alnoor condensate, Alnoor 
integrity etc
 PDO Petroleum Development Oman LLC. MAF (Contract through Velosi Oman L.L.C).Present position: 
VENDOR SURVILLENCE INSPECTOR for Oil and Gas project orders QA / QC Inspections, Technical coordination 
between Velosi worldwide inspections & Review of all velosi worldwide reports, PDO project engineers, PDO 
contractors.
 Inspection as Pipeline Engineering products like all verities of industrial Valves, Pipes, Metallic Hoses, Split 
Sleeves, Expansion Joints, Flanges, Fittings, Gaskets, Packing’s and Fasteners as well as most of the different 
verities engineering products of oil & gas pipeline at PDO inspection yards as well as PDO contractors / PDO 
approved Supplier premises.
 Dec  '2010 – Oct'2012:   Tata Projects Ltd,   Assigned by Petrofac International Ltd. UAE, for Qatar Petroleum As  
Senior Inspection Engineer 
 GSF Project      JI 2001 – Responsible for valve orders, types of valves handled 
- Ball  Valves (Floating &Trunnion Mounted)
- Gate Vales 
- Globe Valves
- Swing check Valves
- Mono flange Valves 
- Diaphragm valves
- Butterfly valves
- Plug valve
- Choke valves
- Control valves
-      Safety valves
1) Attended Kick of meetings and Pre inspection meetings.
2) Vendor QA/QC document review and approval to client specification;
                                                              -     ITP
- NDE procedures
- Procedures (Hydro /Pneumatic test, Functional test PMI, Painting etc.).
3) Coordinating with Vendor for in process QA/QC activities and Final inspection activities;
- Technical requirement as per project specification.
- Procedure Review and Approval.
- Ensure completeness of Witness stages as per approved ITP by TPI.
- Review of Material test certificate.
- Issuing the Shipping check note.
- Final MRB.
4) Inspection at Supplier place for in process and final inspection activities as per approved ITP;
- Review of Material test certificate.
- Witness of NDE Examination (MPT, DPT & UT)
- Witness of Positive material identification.
- Witness of Hydro shell/ seat test, Pneumatic seat test & functional 
test.
- Surface Preparation & Painting inspection such as Amplitude profile 
and wet film thickness/dry film thickness
- EN10204-3.2 Material test Witness (Chemical, Mechanical, Heat 
treatment, Hardness, IGC test& Impact test)
- Packing & Preservation witness.
Notable Accomplishments
Familiar with MESC Specifications, API600, API 6D, API6A, API598, API 594, API 607, API 6FA, BS1414, BS 5351, 
BS1868, BS1873, BSEN 12266, ASTM & ASME Sec. V etc
Valve Materials Handled: ASTM A 494 Gr. Cu5MCuC, ASTM A890 Gr. 4A & Gr. 6A, Inc 825, ASTM A182 Gr. F51, ASTM 
A216 Gr. WCB & WCC, ASTM A351 Gr. CF8, CF8m, CF3, CF3M, ASTM A352 Gr. LCC & LCB etc.
 Feb'2009 – Dec'2010:     Velosi Certification Services (I) PVT  . India ,Mumbai As a Senior Inspection engineer 
Inspection/Expediting of Industrial valves such as:
- Ball  Valves (Floating &Trunnion Mounted)
- Gate Vales 
- Globe Valves
- Swing check Valves
- Sluice Gate valve
- Monoflange Valves 
- Diaphragm valves
- Butterfly valves
- Plug valve
- Choke valves
           Control valves of Electric & Pneumatic operating of various grades of materials at Virgo valves (Pune), Flow  
           Serve (Bangalore), Hyd-air (Pune), Genentech control valve (Mumbai), Hawa Valves (Mumbai & Hubli), Micon 
           valves (Hubli), Intervalve (Pune), Tyco valves(Mumbai)Forbes Marshal (Pune), Micro finish Valves (Hubli) Fluid 
           line valves (Ahmedabad), NECO Group (Nagpur), PEC Valves (Nasik), B.D.K Valves(Hubli), Steel Strong Valves 
           (Mumbai), Niton Valves (Mumbai). 
           Clients: ALKHAFJI, BPCL, GSPL, ONGC, Punj-lloyds, Gail, KNPC, PDO, Sabah shell, Petrofac-GS JV, Black cat   
           construction ,Saipem, Qatar petroleum, Gasco, Daleel petroleum & many other domestic & Export orders.
1)  Testing Conducted on: 
Hydro Shell, Hydro Seat, Pneumatic seat Test, Backseat test (Gate & globe valves), Open/Close timing for 
actuated valves, LTT & Elevated temperature Fugitive Emission Test, Vacuum test, Fire safe Test & Cavity relief 
test (Ball valves), Block & bleed Test (Ball valves), Hysteresis test, Dead band test, CV Test for control globe 
valves, Painting, Blasting, NDT test-MP, DP, UT, PMI Witness on various austenitic steels.
    Standards Referred: 
    MESC Specifications, API 600, API 6D, API 6FA, API 598, API 594, API 607, API 6A, BS1414, BS 5351, BS 1868, BS     
     1873, EN12266 Part-I&2& ASTM, ASME standards 
    Inspection of Fittings,       
            
    Elbows, Tee, Caps, Fasteners, Nipples, Seamless, ERW & Pipes of various grades of materials & as per ASME    
    Standards as per API 5L Gr. B, API 5CT, ASTM A106 & ASTM A133 P11 at Maharashtra Seamless Limited (Nagothne,  
     Mumbai).
Inspection on Fabricated Assemblies: 
Tanks, Raw material, Welded/fabricated assemblies, Castings, Forgings, Plates & Extinguishers
Inspection on Shut down jobs in BPCL Refinery:
Vacuum test, Weld fit ups, Incoming material inspection of Valves, Fittings, Pipe, Heat exchanger gaskets, Tubes, 
plates, Channels, Angles, etc.
Inspection witness at Laboratories:
Witness of Chemical, Mechanical, IGC test, HIC test, Impact test, Hardness, Bend test, PIM test Etc.
 Feb 2003 – Feb 2009:      STEEL STRONG INTERNATIONAL [INDIA] PRIVATE LIMITED, THANE. 
Worked as In charge of QA/QC & Management Representative
Company profile
One of the leading manufacturers of Gate, Globe, Non-return, Ball valves and Strainers size from 1/2:” to 24”. Also 
manufacture and develop a range of pipeline and instrumentation system valves. The company is reflected by ISO 
9001, API 6D API600, API 6A, CE Marking certifications, prestigious quality awards, approvals and envious client list.
RESPONSIBILITIES (Quality and MR) :
1. Preparation of Quality Assurance Plan.
2. Monitoring/Carrying out Internal Testing of Valves as Per Various Manufacturing & Testing Standard 
Requirements.
3. Fugitive Emission Test (Production & Prototype) and Low Temperature Test of Valves. 
4. Fire Safe Test  Conducted More Than 25 Valves Under The Witness Of Third Party Inspection
5. Monitoring Incoming & In-Process Inspection Activities.
6. Preparation of Product Documents as per Standards / ITP / Client Requirement.
7. Contract Review for checking feasibility of the order placed by customer.
8. Co-ordination with Planning, Production, Design Department And with Management Regarding Execution of 
Orders & Inspections.                                                                   
9. Monitoring the Calibration Activity of the Measuring and Testing Instruments.
10. Executed Orders for Clients like PDO, PTSC, Shell, Gail, NPCL, GSP, Punj Lloyds, International Oil and Gas 
services, Econosto, ZYTECH, Petrofac, Techno flow many other domestic and overseas clients.
11. M.R. (Management Representative)
12. Offering the inspection to agencies like DNV, Tata projects Ltd, BV, Velosi, GLI, SGS, ABS, ZYTECH, Econosto, 
Moody International etc.
Testing & Inspection
1. Testing (Pressure testing, Helium test for production type, proto type test) inspection and certification of raw 
material used in industries.
2. Method development and validation i.e. rigorous testing of methods to ensure that they are precise, 
accurate, reproducible, "fool-proof" and specific to product, etc.
3. Conducting quality audits and tests / inspections to ensure that products received from vendors are in 
compliance with pre-set technical specifications.
4. Investigating various defects.
5. ENP testing, galvanizing test. Cadmium plating inspection.
6. Operating Helium test machine.
7. Pressure gauge calibration with dead weight machine.
Supplier Quality & Technical Assurance:
1. Assessing the performance of the vendors based on various criterions such as percentage for rejections, 
quality improvement rate etc.
2. Planning & carrying out process audits at vendor’s end and to monitor trends.
3. Providing technical guidance to the vendor team, guiding them on resolving performance bottlenecks.
Notable Accomplishments:
Efficiently liaised with the third party inspection agencies: 
DNV, Tata projects Ltd, BV, Velosi, SGS, GLI, ABS, ZYTECH, Econosto, Moody International etc.
Efficiency to resolve any technical problems in Gate, Globe, Swing check & Ball valves.
As a MR Handled the Audits for ISO 9001,API-6D,6A,600,CE-Marking.
       Fire Safe Test Conducted More Than 25 Valves Under The Witness Of Third Party Inspection.
 MAY 2001 TO APRIL 2002 :  FINOLEX CABLES LIMITED (LOCATION- GOA) Worked as Trainee. Engineer  
Company profile
One of the leading manufacturers of all types of Cables, 
JOB RESPONSIBILITIES:
1. Prepare production schedule based on production plan.
2. Monitoring the production and records related to conformance.
3. Inspecting the cables and handling of the cable machines. 
4. Maintenance and housekeeping activity.
5. Productivity improvement and wastage reduction.
 Aug 1998 TO APR 2000       :      MICRO FINISH VALVES LTD. (Location- Hubli (Karnataka) Worked as Inspection  
Engineer
Company profile:
One of the leading manufacturers of complete range from ½” to 30” 150/300/600/900 class of Trunnion mounted & 
floating Ball valves (Soft & metal seated). The company is reflected by ISO 9001, API 6D certifications, prestigious 
quality awards, approvals and envious client list.
Job Responsibilities:
1. Internal inspection of valves after assembly
2. Co-coordinating third party & clients for inspection.
3. Inspection of incoming materials as per purchase order and drawings.
4. Inspection of finished components as per drawings & comparators.
5. Calibrating & servicing of Vernier caliper, micrometer, plain plug gauges & pressure gauges.
6. Vendor assessment for quality of product for assembly.
7. To verify & maintain calibration certificates of master instruments calibrated by external source.
8. Verify & maintain the records of jigs & fixtures.
Testing & Inspection:
1. Testing (Pressure testing,) inspection and certification of raw material used in industries.
2. ENP testing, galvanizing test. Cadmium plating inspection.
3. Pressure gauge calibration with dead weight machine.
4. Verify & maintain the Calibration records.
5. Carried out Vendor evaluation and give the ratings. 
     
Education 
• Diploma in Mechanical Engineering from Dept of Tech. Education, Karnataka in 1998
• Diploma (Industrial Safety)- Mumbai, Maharashtra 2001
Other Courses 
• ASNT Level-2 Certifications in NDT subjects - Ultrasonic Testing, Liquid Penetrant Testing, Magnetic Particle 
Testing & Radiographic Interpretation.
IT Skills 
Design Software: AutoCAD 2004 & 2006
Operating Systems:  Windows 98, XP, 7
Packages: Internet MS-Office (Word & Excel)
Personal Details 
Permanent Address: B#32, Anand Housing Cooperative Society, Road no7 Near Automatic company, Wagle 
estate, Thane, Mumbai – 400604, India 
Languages Known: English, Hindi, Marathi and Kannada
Marital Status: Married 
Nationality:   Indian
Passport Details: Passport No: K0732621 (Abu Dhabi; Valid up to 24/09/2021)
No. of Dependents: Three